and we're going to Israel now where a
labor Court says a nationwide strike
being held in the country must end
following a petition from the government
the strike which has been taking place
today is intended to pressure the
government into securing the release of
the remaining hostages held by militants
in Gaza demonstrators have blocked main
roads across the country and flights at
Tel aviv's Boran airport are facing
delays last night's Mass demonstrations
took place cross Israel calling for a
deal with Hamas to free the hostages
that are still being
held the protests come after Israel's
military said six hostages were killed
by their captors the Army said soldiers
found their bodies a short time later in
a tunnel meanwhile Israel's offensive in
Gaza
continues there is sadness everywhere
this is 24-year-old eaten jeros shami's
funeral she was in hamas's captivity for
nearly 11 months the family had hoped
their daughter would return home
safely this is not how I imagined it
would end Eden my love I wanted so bad
to have you back
alive I wanted to get back my Eden my
funny Eden the one making us
laugh so many people wanted to get to
know you but not like this not like this
Eden Eden is among the six other
hostages whose bodies were recovered
from Gaza on Sunday the Israeli military
said Hamas Fighters had killed them
shortly before they found their
bodies the news of their killings led to
an eruption of mass demonstrations
across Israel pressuring the government
to make a deal with Hamas to free the
nearly 100 hostages who are are still
held in
Gaza on Monday the country faced a
strike further pressuring the government
to work on a solution that could bring
the hostages
back people in the region are struck
with an overwhelming grief just around
100 kmet away from Tel Aviv in the
southern Gaza City of Khan yunas
relatives mourned the loss of their
loved ones guiled in an Israeli
strike and here in the central Gaza City
an Israeli attack caused several
casualties a Gaza City municipal vehicle
was targeted resulting in a number of
Martyrs and
injuries they were transported by
ambulance to hospitals and the fire in
the vehicle was
extinguished according to the
Palestinian Health Ministry more than
40,000 Palestinians have been killed in
Gaza since Israel launched its war on
Hamas following the group's October 7
terrorist
attacks the war has left thousands of
people in Israel and Gaza
devastated many continue to hope for an
effort that could finally halt the
fighting oh uh our Middle East analyst
shanir rosanas Joes me in the studio now
for more shy uh why did this execution
one must say wasn't and it wasn't the
first but this one had a much stronger
impact than previous Hamas atrocities
why quite strong impact some people it
was say it was the saddest day in Israel
since October 7th it was really you
could see uh the the the national
morning and and everybody being very
much upset um several reasons they were
young um healthy relatively healthy most
of them they became household names in
Israel many people know them know the
stories know their families by now uh
one of the more prominent International
uh of these U uh now late um hostages is
Harish Goldberg Poland his mom Rachel
has been seen you know speaking in
International media uh day in and day
out since October 7th so there were
quite known house name names for every
Israeli and also at the same time uh we
know that four of these six were
actually on the lists uh in the
negotiated uh deal that's been you know
going back and forth since May so the
feeling was that this is not was you
know this could have been prevented you
know that they were almost there they
were almost back and for all sorts of
Reason mostly political if you ask the
protesters that we've been seeing on the
street since yesterday uh Netanyahu has
been stalling and that of course led to
their execution by Hamas but Israeli um
you know Israeli policy has not shown
enough urgency in trying to bring them
back now as we've heard Israel Israel's
main labor union has called a general
strike today um will this strike be able
to pressure netan to accept a truce deal
well it is the the first wide you know
uh strike we've been seeing since
October 7th this is the the harshest uh
a measure that we've seen taken by uh
not just the uh the workers but also uh
private businesses and municipalities
everybody kind of joining trying to you
know pressure Netanyahu for being more
active in trying to promote the deal uh
you know netan is a very divisive figure
in Israel is very much uh with you know
he has his base and there's then there's
all the rest so it seems and it's been
becoming more and more you know this
rift this this Schism in Israeli Society
has become more and more strong in the
last months and I think n himself also
sees that I mean there's very little
noises background noises as he might see
it coming from the left uh or sort of
out of his base that can actually move
him or or shift you know his policies uh
he feels like everything he does you
know is already you know he never gets a
fair chance by the media by the public
and so on I don't think this will make a
difference we will still need to see how
much of momentum this wave of
demonstrations will will will you know
eventually have and if it will grow big
enough it might shift some other members
of the Coalition that then will maybe
exert their pressure on netan but I
doubt this will actually make much of a
difference talking about pressure on um
Netanyahu the media reports uh that the
American Administration is currently
preparing a final take it or leave it
ceasefire deal how much leverage does
the US really have no that's that's the
good question I mean the leverage of the
Americans especially Biden himself
knowing that he's not running for
re-election you know is very much eroded
if he ever had any leverage of course uh
since his announcement that he's
withdrawing from the presidential race
that has completely uh diminished um
there's always you know the biggest tool
that Americans have is their support
their their military support their their
support for the Israeli defense Biden
will be very reluctant to do anything
you know to withdraw some of that we've
seen you know the backlash for any uh
you know delays and shipment of of
arment so far and we need to keep in
mind as much as there's a lot of anger
and frustration on netan and the
political you know um uh the way the
politics have been affecting his his
decisions we also have another side here
and this is Kamas and we don't see much
of a flexibility there it brings us to a
point where we are more than 10 months
in and we don't see any change coming
unfortunately Shan is there thank you
very much Donnie